So after seeing the window object and before diving into the document object,
let's have a look at the location object which I have already showed before. So we can have a look at
it again by simply logging with no dot location or as explained, just location since we are already on
that window object.
If I now hit run, we see that location object and it's pretty clearly and well-structured
so let's go through that.
Basically it holds a location we're currently at
and this of course mainly means the URL, the host.
So we for example can see the host we're at, the hostname which in this case here is equal, the path name
for example
and yes, that's a bit strange here on JSBin since we have this contained Javascript execution here
but
basically this would be whatever you have after your hostname here,
so any path name here, that would be want you can extract on your own home page, which protocol was used
and some built-in functions you may use; assign, reload and replace.
So we can use all of that, we can for example print the hostname here and if I clear this, of course we
get what we just saw in the overall holding object, so you can of course access all those fields here
.
We also can have a look at the path, so we can just use location.pathname to see the path we're currently
at
and if I hit run, we see /runner and as I explained, this is a bit strange here in JSBin.
Normally the path is everything here after your domain, so the part you're at and to demonstrate this, let's
head over to another webpage, for example to
Github and just click anywhere here, any link so that you have more than just a domain here in your
browser bar,
then open you up your developer tools like shown before, control alt i or command alt i on Mac
or simply over your overview
and then developer, developer tools and then you can just print something here, you can write
Javascript here
too, of course very simple Javascript commands or code but it works
and then I want to log location.pathname. If I now hit enter,
so then you see /personal here which is the path here.
You also and I'll stay here because I can show it here better than in JSBin where we have this
contained browser window now.
So here for example, I also can call location reload to reload the page or location replace
to replace the URL with another one, pass a string here and replace it with google.com for
example,
hit enter and we're taken there.
So this is how you can use the location object to navigate or to extract information about the page
the user is currently on through the path name for example and so on.
So really important too to get an idea of where you are and get to another point if you want that.